docs: add arc-2 proposal (#2)
axelarnetwork/arcs: ARCs/ARC-2.md

# ARC-2: ITS Hub Register Existing ITS Tokens

## Metadata

- **ARC ID**: 2
- **Author(s)**: CJ Cobb
- **Status**: Draft
- **Created**: 2024-12-3
- **Last Updated**: 2024-12-3
- **Target Implementation**: Q4 2024

## Summary

Add an admin/governance method on the ITS hub that allows registering a token that has already been deployed
in p2p mode (without the hub). This allows existing ITS tokens that were deployed prior to the ITS hub release to 

> be registered with the hub and to be processed through the hub. At the edge contracts, these tokens will need to be
> migrated from p2p mode to hub mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be registered with the hub and to be processed through the hub. After the tokens are registered on the ITS hub, the ITS edge contracts can switch their connection from p2p to hub mode.
```
The ITS tokens themselves don't need any migration on edge contracts, just need to switch connection type

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only the EVM ITS edge contracts using the Axelar consensus protocol are using p2p mode in production.

```
just to clarify that this doesn't affect Amplifier deployments

transfer of that token from B to C will be rejected. However, tokens that were deployed prior to the launch of the
ITS hub were deployed in p2p mode, and the ITS hub is not aware of those deployments. If one of those tokens is 
then deployed to a hub connected chain, the ITS hub has an incomplete view of which chains the token is deployed 
on, and will reject transfers that should succeed. For example, imagine token T is deployed on A and B in p2p 
mode. The hub is not aware of either of these deployments. Then, token T is deployed from A to C via the hub. Now 
the hub knows about the token T deployment on A and C, but not B. A transfer from C to B will then fail, even 
though the token is deployed on B and thus the transfer should succeed.

### Goals

- Allow a token to be transferred to all chains where it is deployed
- Maintain balance tracking and other invariants even when a token was not deployed via the hub

## Design

The ITS hub will expose an admin/governance method to register an existing token with the hub:

```rust

pub enum ExecuteMsg {
    // all of the existing methods remain unchanged

    #[permission(Elevated)]

>     RegisterToken {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    RegisterTokenInstance {
```
avoids confusion with the `RegisterToken` ITS message type

Reviewer 2: I feel like the name needs to convey the purpose that link p2p token to the hub. `RegisterTokenInstance` is still opaque

Author: I don't like the `Migrate` prefix, because the command itself is not actually migrating anything. Would prefer `RegisterP2pTokenInstance`

>     RegisterToken {

Reviewer: allow providing a list of token instances so batching doesn't require multiple proposals even if governance is used

Reviewer 3: I understand the need for batching, but as an implementation approach, I'd rather we have `RegisterToken` (or whatever we're going to call it) and then create a command `RegisterTokens` that takes a vector of `RegisterToken` messages. I'm fine adding batching to goals though

>         deployed_chain: ChainNameRaw,
>         origin_chain: ChainNameRaw,
>         token_id: TokenId,
>         decimals: u8,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        chain: ChainNameRaw,
        token_id: TokenId,
        decimals: u8,
        origin_chain: ChainNameRaw,
```
maybe `chain` is sufficient with a different field order

Reviewer 3: `instance_chain`? I'm all for concise naming, but `chain` might be a bit too confusing

>         supply: Option<Uint256>, // None if not tracked for this chain

Reviewer 3: I also prefer a dedicated enum. This is a public interface, so I want to convey clearly the meaning of parameters, and 
```
enum TokenSupply{
   Tracked(uint256),
   Untracked
}
```
is absolutely straight forward about what it's doing

>         deployment_type: TokenDeploymentType // Trustless or Custom

Reviewer 3: Next steps: seems like there is still quite a bit of confusion around deployment types and managers

    }
}
```

The above command will register the token and store all of the neccessary information. The supply is used to
initialize balance tracking. The supply can be hard to specify with exact correctness, due to inflight transfers.
Therefore, the command can be executed more than once with the same arguments albeit a different supply, which will

> overwrite the existing supply for that chain.

Reviewer 3: Next steps: This seems like an almost impossible task, especially with governance delay. I think we need to get stakeholder input on what is an acceptable solution

> The command will fail if the token instance already exists with a different decimals, origin_chain or

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The command will fail if the token instance already exists with different decimals, origin_chain or
```

> deployment_type (or maybe we shouldn't fail, in case there is a mistake and we need to overwrite?).

Reviewer: i think we can validate these values off-chain so we don't need to overwrite. the supply is the trickier one.

> deployment_type (or maybe we shouldn't fail, in case there is a mistake and we need to overwrite?).

Reviewer 3: I think once we called the migration once, if it went through, any adjustment should be done with a universal admin/governance function that works for all tokens, not just migrated ones. I don't like to treat them separately ones they are known to the hub

Reviewer 3: Next steps: describe this rescue functionality and what happens to transactions to tokens with failed migrations (i.e. migrated but wrong data)

> The command will fail if the supply is set to None and deployed_chain does not equal origin chain.

Reviewer 3: is that always true, i.e. are there no deployed p2p tokens that we cannot track (e.g. due to existing minters)?
If it is, can we codify this instead of allowing an input that will always fail?

Author: Actually, I think there must be deployed p2p tokens with custom minters, so we probably should fail this case. @milapsheth

> The command will fail if either the deployed_chain or origin_chain is not registered with the hub.

Reviewer: hmm. i'm fine with having a separate method to update supply so both implementations are cleaner

## Risks

- For this to work effectively, there is operational overhead of determing every ITS token, and registering each

> with the ITS hub correctly. There is a possibility some are missed, or registered incorrectly, and thus need to be adjusted.

Reviewer 3: Next steps: Can we mitigate this? Do we have a plan to help with the information gathering?
